In the last lecture, we installed Visual Studio Code, let's now understand this Typescript code and understand
how it is rendering this visual we're seeing here. Now you don't need to be a Typescript expert
but some programming knowledge of course helps as it does for this whole section.
What we do have here as we bundle all our code into a module and that's not that important, it just
bundles it into one logical unit,
then we export a class and we may ignore the export
but a class is a certain programming construct which again kind of bundles a couple of functionalities
into one object
and if this is all brand new to you, I strongly recommend picking up some basic programming course first
because without any programming knowledge, this is going to be hard.
So what do we have here?
This class implements an interface,
IVisual and an interface is just a contract which forces this class to have a certain method
for example, in this case, to have an update method.
If I were to remove this method, it would fail, it would get an error, we would get this error here
in the command prompt where our server runs
and as a side note, keep this running, don't access this process, it will automatically recompile your
code whenever you change something and ship a new version
of our visual to the Power BI service.
So this is where we would get an error and that is what the contract forces us to do, include this update
method.
Why do we need this contract?
Well keep in mind that here in Power BI and that is also true if we later run it in Power BI Desktop
which of course also works then, that there, if we resize the visual for example, we need to be able to
call some method which changes, which updates our visual
and if we were free to choose any name we want, how would Power BI service know which method to call?
It wouldn't know it,
right?
So we have this contract which ensures that when Power BI service or Power BI Desktop calls an update
method in our own visual, that this method exists
and this is what IVisual does,
it forces us to have an update method because it is in this update method that our logic lives, where
we actually display the visual we could say. We do create the visual in the constructor which is a method
which is called once this visual is created for the first time
but all we do there beside some logging is we get access to the visual, so to the root element, to this
wrapping container where the visual sits in. We do this with this options element property call here, options is
simply an object
Power BI passes to this constructor automatically. So with that, we know where to create a
visual, we have a place where to render it, we have this wrapping HTML element so to say. Then we initialize
our updated counter, we set it to 0 initially, both target and update count are properties
so data fields of that class, that's a Typescript feature and most object or all object oriented programming
language have that feature
and then the update method is called right after the visual was created and on every update, so whenever
we resize it and so on and there, all we do is we output the update count.
We do this by getting access to this target,
this wrapping element, this wrapping HTML element, calling the innerHTML property which is a property
all HTML elements have
and then we set this equal to a paragraph
basically, that is a string but that is HTML markup in that string where we also, have wrapped in this
emphasis HTML tag, our update count.
And this strange syntax is a feature supported by Typescript,
notice that we use back ticks here and not single quotation marks,
that creates a string where we can actually put dynamic variables or where we can put variables inside
of it with this ${} syntax you see here and then we can output them right in the
string without having to concatenate it with pluses and so on.
That is what happens and that is what we see here
and therefore if we were to change something here, let's say start at 10 for example and hit save,
it will recompile this here in our command prompt which is why you see a new line here,
change detected and then if we go to our visual and we click reload visual code, you see we at 10
just because of that change.
So that's what's happening here,
now let's have a look at all the other files and folders which were created for us.